Up until now, we've learned some basic concepts in
natural language processing including bag-of-words,
stop words, stemming, lemmatization,
and term frequency inverse document frequency or TFIDF.
In our coding exercise,
we've implemented these algorithms using Python.
We've also learned about financial statement data collected by
the US Securities and Exchange Commission and how to access them on the Internet.
These concepts can be used to systematically interpret
textual financial data to create stock selection models.
Good fundamental analysts investigate
all relevant information regarding the stocks they follow.
This includes financial statements required by the regulatory authorities
like 10-Ks which are published annually and 10-Qs which are published quarterly.
This is a lot of work for the analyst who covers approximately 30 to 40 stocks.
Using NLP techniques, a quantitative analyst can quickly analyze sections
from all 10-Ks and 10-Qs for all the companies required to file with the SCC.
That's approximately 3,000 to 4,000 companies every quarter.
In this project, we're going to access the SCC website to download
annual 10-K filings and extract key sections for NLP analysis.
We'll use several Python libraries to implement
the analysis and create a text-based stock selection model.
This stock selection model was originally described
in an academic paper called Lazy Prices,
authored by Lauren Cohen,
Christopher Malloy, and Quoc Nguyen.
Their research investigates how changes in
particular sections of the financial statements can be used for picking stocks.
These concepts we'll learn in this project are important in
many textual data modeling
techniques that are employed by quantitative investment managers.
From analyzing financial documents to processing news articles and social media posts,
these basic NLP concepts form part of the core toolkits for quantitative managers.
I'm really excited to share this methodology with you,
and I hope you enjoy the project.